And welcome back.
In the previous video we went over the basic
rules that all HTML files must follow.
And I kind of glossed over this '!DOCTYPE html'
tag, and I did that on purpose because I want
you to develop a another
developer fundamental concept.
And that is the fact that most of the time, as
developers there's so much information out there that
there's no way that you can
keep all of that in your head.
And as developers we must get really
really good at problem solving.
So for the doctype let's say if I was working and
somebody gives me this file and I say OK I've got
this that's good but I'm
not sure what 'doctype' is.
Well again we wanna get really good at Googling here, and
I know it sounds silly, but trust me, as a developer
you're going to be Googling a lot and going to get really
really good at looking for answers and understanding
meanings behind code.
So, if I go into 'doctype html' and we Google that,
one of the first things that we get is the W3 School
and this is a resource that I highly, highly recommend.
They'll actually explain what the doctype is, and
even show you a demo of what it does.
You can read into this and get more familiar with it,
but the general rule and the concept behind 'doctype'
is that 'doctype' says to the browser, 'Hey just
a heads up this file is going to use HTML5.'
And we'll get into what HTML5, is but right now,
HTML has evolved from back in the day when Tim
Berners-Lee invented it, to where it is now. And it
has developed and evolved so that it has a few more
tags,
it has a few more features, and this is the way for us
to say, 'Hey, browser we're going to be using HTML5.
So please make sure that you load the website properly.'
And we'll get into what those new tags are and
some of the new syntaxes.
But again most likely in your day to day job you're
going to be writing this at the top because we're
writing in HTML5, if that ever
changes and something new comes along,
we might change this,
but 'doctype' that's what it is.
But the key concept here is that I really want you
to start Googling, at any time you see in my videos,
something that you don't fully understand
or you want to dig a little bit deeper.
You really want to grow those roots of your foundation
so that you really understand how the landscape
works.
OK.
So I just wanted to get that concept across that
as a developer, you really want to understand
how things work and what they mean,
and you'll come across in your day to day
many things that it's very easy to
just, on the surface copy and paste,
or just look at an example and do it
without fully understanding what it does.
But the developers that get really really good salaries,
really good jobs, and are considered 'senior developers'
are the ones that fully understand all the
meaning behind the things that they do.
We're going to be taking that throughout the course
and making sure that we develop those fundamentals.
But any time, like I said, you have any questions
or you don't understand something fully,
I do encourage you to Google and get the answers
because there's a ton of free resources out there for
you to get fully,
fully comfortable with the topic.
I'll see you in the next one.